---
layout: post
title: "366 Papers for 2016"
category:
    - Graduate School
tags:
    - papers
    - twitter
---

I stumbled upon a Twitter hashtag `#366papers`. The text usually associated with
this is a summary or the title of an article they read. Presumably, they have
read the paper and will read an article every day of this year (which happens to
be a leap year!).

As a graduate student, I find this challenge great. It'll help me make a habit
of reading journal articles. Additionally, I hope to keep a log of the papers I
read with this post. So I will regularly update this post with new papers I read
and links to them. Enjoy and wish me luck!

<!--break-->

# Papers Log

4. Feb 20. Mager, J., Bartolomei M. ["Strategies for dissecting epigenetic
   mechanisms in the mouse"][feb20mager]. *Nature Genetics* (2005).
    - Reviews epigenetic modifications and mediators of modifications
    - Overview of epigenetics techniques and methods of analysis
    - Highlights challenges to some of the epigenetic methods, such as
      sufficient number of cells
    - Summarizes bisulfite sequencings, retriction landscape genome scanning
      (RLGS), chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP), ChIP on chip, and chromatin
      conformation capture (3C)
3. Feb 07. Clooney, A., et. al. ["Comparing Apples and Oranges?: Next Generation
   Sequencing and Its Impact on Microbiome Analysis"][feb07clooney]. *PLoS One*
   (2016).
    - Microbiome research is rapidly changing, different and new methods appear,
      so comparing analyses is going to be difficult
    - Compares HiSeq, MiSeq, and Ion PGM sequencing and its effects on
      downstream metagenomic analyses
2. Feb 04. Conesa, A., et.al. ["A survey of best practices for RNA-seq
   analysis"][feb04conesa]. *Genome Biology* (2016).
    - Excellent summary roadmap for RNA-seq computational analyses from
      pre-analysis all the way through advanced analysis of visualization and
      integrating with other data
    - Covers common pitfalls and lots of reasoning to decisions made in an
      RNA-seq analysis (e.g. map to the transcriptome versus the genome)
    - Gives references to some computational tools used in each analysis step
1. Feb 03. Bassuk, Alexander G., et. al. ["Precision Medicine: Genetic Repair of
   Retinitis Pigmentosa in Patient-Derived Stem Cells"][feb03bassuk].
   *Scientific Reports* 6 (2016).
    - Uses CRISPR/Cas9 to edit mutation in patients with X-linked retinitis
      pigmentosa (XLRP)
    - Uses induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from patient fibroblasts
    - Patient derived cells required no patient immunosuppression
    - Need to be conscious of off-targeting of CRISPR/Cas9
    - Describes methods of narrowing which CRISPR guide RNA to use and
      validation

[feb20mager]: http://www.nature.com/ng/journal/v37/n11/abs/ng1664.html
[feb07clooney]: http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0148028
[feb04conesa]: http://www.genomebiology.com/content/17/1/13
[feb03bassuk]: http://www.nature.com/articles/srep19969
