---
layout: post
title: 366 Papers for 2016 Part 2
category:
  - Graduate School
tags:
  - papers
  - twitter
published: true
---

A break from my endeavor, but here's Part 2 to my 366 Papers for 2016!

<!--break-->

# Papers Log

10. Gadd, Cynthia S., et al. ["Eligibility requirements for advanced health
   informatics certification."][jul19gadd] Journal of the American Medical
   Informatics Association 23.4 (2016): 851-854.
   - Discusses certification for an advanced health informatics certification
     (AHIC)
   - Three focuses: practical focus, education path, and informatics experience
   - Two phases, 1) unspecified time waiting for accreditted programs, and 2)
     must attend accredited health informatics program to seek AHIC
   - High bar for practicing informatics individuals reflect aspirations for
     field
   - Hopefully certification will push current educational programs to
     incorporate changes to allow students to pursue certification
9. Blancas-Mejía, Luis M., and Marina Ramirez-Alvarado. ["Systemic
   amyloidoses."][jul17blancas] Annual review of biochemistry 82 (2013): 745.
   - Discusses biochemical basis of amyloidosis
   - Discusses different types of amyloidoses e.g. light chain, secondary, etc.
   - Focuses on light chain systemic amyloidosis
8. Flores, Gilberto E., et al. ["Microbial biogeography of public restroom
   surfaces"][jul08flores]. PLoS One 6.11 (2011): e28132.
   - Looked at 12 bathrooms in Colorado
   - Found four major phyla, differences between hand-touched surfaces and not,
     and differences between male and female bathroom microorganism composition
   - Important for public health knowledge of easy transmission of microbes
   - Theoretically could test efficacy of hygiene practices and track pathogen
     spread
7. Jul 9. Waldor, Matthew K., et al. ["Where Next for Microbiome
   Research?"][jul9waldor].  PLoS Biol 13.1 (2015): e1002050.
   - Short pieces by scientists on what they this is next
   - Move from describing the composition to assembly, dynamics, and function
   - Need for systems-biology-based approaches to understand dynamics and
     function of microbial communities
   - Think about evolution of microbial assemblies
   - Need to understand mechanistic basis of microbiome interactions
   - Exciting area of research in microbiome interactions in skin disorders and
     in nutrition
   - Creation of synthetic microbiomes to engineer a microbiome
6. Jul 7. ["Raising standards in microbiome research"][jul07]. Editorial.
   *Nature Microbiology*. 16112 (2016): 1
   - Need for standard operating procedures in microbiome research for
     interrogation of microbiome and assessment
   - Microbiome research has gained lots of attention in host associated or
     environmental areas, such as agriculture
   - "...without rich metadata...attempts to draw comparison between datasets
     generated from different cohorts can also be confounded."
   - International Human Microbiome Standards (IHMS) project was established
   - Need balance in adhering too much to protocols to stifle research and
     unoptimized use of a protocol to a given experiment
5. Jul 3. Cho, Ilseung, and Martin J. Blaser. ["The human microbiome: at the
   interface of health and disease"][jul03cho]. *Nature Reviews Genetics* 13.4
   (2012): 260-270.
   - Review of microbiome research up until 2012
   - Discusses characterization and variation of the microbiome
   - Discusses various microbiomes (cutaneous, gastric, gastrointestinal) and
     their relation to IBD, colorectal cancer, and liver disease
   - Discusses effects of the microbiome from birth to adulthood

[jul17blancas]: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4044913/
[jul08flores]: http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0028132
[jul9waldor]: http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.1002050
[jul07]: http://www.nature.com/articles/nmicrobiol2016112
[jul03cho]: http://www.nature.com/nrg/journal/v13/n4/abs/nrg3182.html
