---
layout: post
title: csv,conf,v3 Experience
category:
    - conference
---

I attended my first csv,conf and here are my thoughts on attending.

<!--break-->

I got the opportunity to attend csv,conf this year. It was a matter of
convenience (it was in Portland) and curiousity. I had some colleagues
attending so at the very least, I'd seem some familiar faces.

csv,conf is ["a community conference for data makers everywhere"][csvconf], so
not a conference *just* about the csv data format. The [conference
schedule][schd] was packed with fantastic speakers and topics ([here][ghschd]
is a csv of the schedule for more permanent reference).

Below is a summary of the talks I attended throughout the conference.

Designing with data: prototyping at the speed of learning
=========================================================

The first talk I went to was Michelle Hertzfeld's. Her talk was based on her
document ["Little rules for designing with data"][designWithData] and her
experience designing the [USEITI][useiti] website.

The four main points of her talk were:

1. Perform research on how the users of the data will interact with your
   content
2. Use real data in prototyping (real data != mock data)
3. Iterative tests through many prototypes to quickly assess what works and
   what doesn't
4. Test most promising prototypes on actual people

Michelle is a part of [18F][18f] (a group that works with federal agencies to
create digital services) and they have created a repository of [best practices
across their teams][18fteams] that might be worth keeping for reference.

Designing data exploration: How to make large data sets accessible
==================================================================

Data & Abuse of Power
=====================

Continuous Data Validation for Everybody
========================================

Metatab: Metadata for Mortals
=============================

Corporate Data Science
======================

A Better "Edit" Button for GitHub-Hosted Data
=============================================

A match made in heaven: domain expert meets csv: gives birth to ontologies
==========================================================================

A Better Way to Code
====================

Opinionated Analysis Development
================================

Applying software engineering practises to data analysis
========================================================

Innovation to facilitate data sharing in the life sciences and biomedicine
==========================================================================

Reproducible and reusable research: Data sharing policies & community driven strategies for improving the status quo
====================================================================================================================

Summary
=======

In general, take a peak at the [#csvconf on Twitter][hashtag] to see all the
happenings at csv,conf,v3.

[csvconf]: https://csvconf.com/
[schd]: https://csvconf.com/speakers/
[ghschd]: https://github.com/csvconf/csvconf.com/blob/gh-pages/_data/2017_schedule.csv
[designWithData]: https://github.com/18F/doi-extractives-data/wiki/Little-rules-for-designing-with-data
[useiti]: https://useiti.doi.gov/
[18f]: https://18f.gsa.gov/
[18fteams]: https://guides.18f.gov/

[hashtag]: https://twitter.com/hashtag/csvconf
