---
layout: post
title: On coffee chats with colleagues
categories: []
tags: [networking, work, career]
---

Networking and getting to know your work colleagues is difficult these
days, especially when you are working remote.

I'm lucky that my current work has some opportunities to make these
connections possible with random pairings for "coffee chats". And here
are some thoughts about the coffee chats I've had so far.

## Setup for coffee chats

First off, these coffee chats are scheduled for 30 minutes. So I try
my best to be timely and respectful of others' time if they have
appointments before or after our chat.

Usually, Outlook or whatever your work's email system should be able
to handle timezones and to show their general availability before
scheduling a meeting. But in case it doesn't, it would be good to
touch base with what times work best.

I'm lucky that I have a Slack channel you can join to opt-in to this
random pairing of coffee chats. If you don't already have this or
something like Donut, then maybe start one yourself.

## Have a quick blurb about yourself ready

To start off, I do end up starting with work just because that is how
we're having this conversation anyway. But then I try to pivot to
other things after.

I like to have some brief introduction to my role at the company and a
project I'm working on. This is great to have for anyone, not just for
these coffee chats.

This is excellent practice to talk about yourself anyways in the event
you have the opportunity to connect and network outside of work too.

## Get to know colleagues personally

I like to think that these chats are a chance for colleagues to try
and not talk about work, per se. Working remote, we're always
connected to the computer doing work, so I like to take this time to
get to know my colleagues a bit.

I have my Zoom background to be of a library I like. Some people have
commented on it and it has brought on some nice conversations about
travel, books, or other hobbies we have.

If work does come up, I try to learn more about how they got there.
Some have worked up the corporate ladder. Some have pivoted from other
fields like I have. Nonetheless, it's so fun to learn.
